Risk Analytic Library Python On Architect
 
Tech Leader – Quantitative Library Development
 
At State Street, we are dedicated to developing state-of-the-art financial technologies. Our team is seeking a visionary tech leader to innovate the design and implementation of a cutting-edge quantitative library that will revolutionize the way we analyze and process financial data. This is a unique opportunity to influence the fintech space, spearhead a dynamic team, and set new industry benchmarks. If you’re ready to unleash your technical prowess and drive innovation, join us on this exhilarating journey and lead the charge in reshaping the future of quantitative analysis. The ideal candidate should have strong background in quantitative methodologies and analysis, as well as software development to lead the design and implementation of a new quantitative library from the ground up. In addition, the candidate is a dynamic and innovative thinker with extensive experience in quantitative finance, software architecture, and team leadership. This role is pivotal in setting the foundation for State Street’s endeavors to strengthen the company’s risk control function.
 
Key Responsibilities:
Design and architectural development.
1. Lead the end-to-end design, development, and deployment of a robust quantitative library tailored to the financial sector.  
2. Establish and maintain a scalable architecture that supports complex quantitative models and allows for future expansion.
Guarantee that models developed are optimized for computational efficiency, provide accurate outputs, and are structured for easy maintenance.
3.
Quantitative method Integration:
1. Collaborate with quantitative analysts, researcher and software engineers to define the technical and functional requirements of the library using the latest methodologies and technologies.
2. Oversee the integration of the library with existing systems and migration of legacy models to the new platform.
3.  
Quality Assurance & Testing:
1. Ensure the application of best practices in coding, testing, and deployment, with a strong emphasis on reliability and performance.  
 
Team Leadership:
1. Manage project timelines, deliverables, and resources allocation efficiently.
2. Provide mentorship and guidance to team members (software developers), ensuring professional growth and skill development.
3. Foster a culture of excellence, innovation, and continuous improvement within the tech team.
Stay updated:
1. Stay abreast of the latest advancements in quantitative analysis and financial modeling, technologies as well as machine learning to keep the library at the forefront of the industry.
 
 
Qualifications:
1. Master’s degree Or PhD in computer Science, Mathematics, Financial Engineering, or related filed.
2. Minimum 8 years of experiences in application development, at least 5 years in Python,
3. Proven track record of developing and implementing models or libraries in a Linux environment.
4. Expertise in programming languages such as Python, C/C++, or Java, with a focus on numerical algorithms and libraries (e.g., Pandas, NumPy), as well as high-performance computing
5. Strong understanding of financial instruments, risk management and market dynamics.
6. Exceptional leadership skills with the abilities to inspire and manage technical team.
7. Excellent communication skills, capable of explaining complex concepts to non-technical stateholders
 
 
